                            laravel request cycle

  1. user sends a request
  2. request enters index.php this is an entry gate of the laravel
  3. composer autoloads all classes
  4. laravel bootstraps application ( prepares  the framework, it sets up core binding and all configurations)
  5. middleware runs ( middleware binding ,it checks request before it reaches the route like authentication check, or logging etc)
  6. route matching takes place ( laravel matches requested url, view mthod renders, respons to browser)
  7. controller method executes
  8. view renders response
  9. response sent back to browser.


6/12/2026

                 Laravel folder and files

1. App: the brain of the framework where most of the codes lie.
    Model: communincates with the db
     controller: fetches, processes data

2.config folder: contains configuration of how different parts of framework behave.
     what db should be used?
     what timezone should be used?
     how should login work? etc
     app.php: contains general application settings
     database.php: contains db connection configurations
     auth.php: contains authenticationsettings like controlling login, register, password reset etc
     filesystems.php: contains file storage cnfigurations, like where should  uploaded files be stored
     mail.php: contains email service settings

3.database folder: contains files related to db streucture and db management
    creating tables
    adding test data etc

4.migrations: used fpr creating tables 
    bash:  php artisan migrate

5.seeders: inserts reuqired data into db
   for inital data 

6. factories: generates fake data automatically instead of manually entering

7.storage: stores files while running an app

8.vendor: contains all composer-installed pacl=kages and dependencies

9. .gitignore: a git cnfiguration that tells git which files shoudl not be tracked

10. .gitattributes: maintains consistency between developers, how files should be handlded

11.composer.json: main dependency config file for php packages

12. composer.lock: stores exact installed versions of packages

13. package-lock.json:  stores exact versions of node.js  packages
    genrated after runing npm install

14. phpunit.xml: config files for php unit testing framework

15. artisan : command-line tool for laravel

16. provider: contains service providers
     services to be registered and configured before starting an app

17. queue.php: a system that laravel perform certain later instead of making a user wait

18. config/services.php: stores third-party configurations

19. session.php: contains sessions configurations
      session: temporary memory for a user.

20. public folder: contain files thta needs be used by the browser directly

21. vite.config.js: configuration file for vite
      vite:  a front-end build tool used to process css, js, images, tailwindcss, vue and react and prepare them for the browser.
       vite also contains hot reloading, prepares frontend files for production


